In the late 1950s, the opposition against Jehovah's Witnesses in the former Soviet Union resulted
in homes being searched, brothers being followed, and many of our brothers and sisters being
sent to communist concentration camps in Siberia among other places.
In 1956 and 1957, over 462,000 convention delegates worldwide unanimously adopted a petition,
which clearly outlined the treatment Jehovah's Witnesses were enduring.
It was sent to the Soviet authorities, but sadly, not much changed.
The next year, at the 1958 International Convention at Yankee Stadium in New York, a talk
was given entitled Behind the Iron Curtain.
During the talk, delegates were surprised when a recording of greetings and songs from
brothers and sisters in the Soviet Union was played.
Despite the risk of losing their freedom, the brothers produced and sent these recordings.
Well, a few months ago, some of those who were involved in making the recording were able
to listen to it for the first time.
Several of them found out only then that the recording had been played at the convention
at Yankee Stadium.
Our team was present at that gathering.
The brothers told us to prepare songs for a recording.
When we were singing, I never imagined that it was for a convention, because I did not
know about that.
We sang as usual.
The chorus was made up of about 20 persons, and the recording was made in a room, in a
barrack-like building.
I just looked after the chorus to give them the right tone.
If someone sang a little off-key, she would right away remark, halt us, you are off,
or tenor, you are off, so that there would be no slips, no mistakes.
We had to be very careful when we were recording.
And so we knew not to talk.
I could not tell anyone about it.
It was secret, absolutely secret.
We chose a brother who spoke very good Russian, who had good intonation, and who had a good voice.
And as I recall, we made the recording on our first attempt.
Brother Yuri Dobicin said the greetings.
As the brothers who made the recording told me, the most difficult assignment was to
get this recording across the border.
The brothers cut it up into pieces and sewed it into the lining of a jacket, because that's
how confidential letters were sent.
One married couple from Poland, who were vacationing in Russia, agreed to take it back with them,
to take it out of the Soviet Union.
And that's where they ran into serious problems.
From Brother Scheider's letter, we received the audio recording in Poland.
The security officers separated our brother from the others.
Then an officer said to him, please give us the film and the three letters you have with
you.
The brother saw now, of course, that there had been a traitor somewhere.
He and his wife were now thoroughly searched.
Every square centimeter of their cases was carefully examined together with their contents.
Then both were stripped naked.
While this was going on, they yelled at the brother, tell us where you have hidden everything
or to whom you have given it.
They were absolutely convinced that he had everything with him.
Several times they took him to the office of the frontier police and to the security police,
pushing him again and again and being terribly angry.
But they finally had to give up.
They kept him back for 24 hours and questioned him in the presence of 10 specialists.
But he came out victorious.
Sadly, even the brothers who were involved don't know who this couple who brought the tape
into Poland was.
And now we have yet a surprise for you, a message directly from our brothers in Russia to
this convention.
And now we give you a part of their message to you in Russia.
Dear brothers and sisters, we wish you all the best of luck in the history of our
country.
You have gathered today in the international convention of the middle of the ego, we wish you
at least in several words to give you a brief message about our life and activities
on the territory of Russia.
Only thanks to the supreme God of the ego we can live and work hard.
In the last period, in the end of the Second World War, the real time,
we have had a fairly difficult and difficult time fighting for the protection of faith and
eternity in this old world.
However, due to all the difficulties, the law, the arrest, the repression, we were also
a lot of joy.
The joy of our country was that many people in good health came to the recognition of their
interests and old friends, good friends, good friends and great-grandchildren.
Well for me, it was of course a great joy, since the goal was reached after all.
Everything was so wonderful at that time, I really enjoyed it all.
Nothing could describe the joy I felt.
I was overwhelmed with feelings.